v3.0, dev: add tidb-in-kubernetes docs (#1310)
pingcap/docs: v3.0/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/tidb-in-kubernetes/alibaba-cloud.md

---
title: Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to deploy a TiDB cluster on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes.
category: how-to
---

# Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes

This document describes how to deploy a TiDB cluster on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes with your laptop (Linux or macOS) for development or testing.

## Prerequisites

- [aliyun-cli](https://github.com/aliyun/aliyun-cli) >= 3.0.15 and [configure aliyun-cli](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/doc-detail/90766.htm?spm=a2c63.l28256.a3.4.7b52a893EFVglq)

    > **Note:**
    > 
    > The access key used must be granted permissions to control resources.

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl) >= 1.12
- [helm](https://github.com/helm/helm/blob/master/docs/install.md#installing-the-helm-client) >= 2.9.1 and <= 2.11.0
- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) >= 1.6
- [terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html) 0.11.*

> ### Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Privileges
```

> The following permissions are required to deploy a TiDB cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy a TiDB cluster, make sure you have the following privileges: 
```

`terraform apply` takes 5 to 10 minutes to create the whole stack, once complete, basic cluster information is printed:

```
Apply complete! Resources: 3 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed.

Outputs:

bastion_ip = 1.2.3.4
bastion_key_file = /root/tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun/credentials/tidb-cluster-bastion-key.pem
cluster_id = ca57c6071f31f458da66965ceddd1c31b
kubeconfig_file = /root/tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun/.terraform/modules/a2078f76522ae433133fc16e24bd21ae/kubeconfig_tidb-cluster
monitor_endpoint = 1.2.3.4:3000
region = cn-hangzhou
tidb_port = 4000
tidb_slb_ip = 192.168.5.53
tidb_version = v3.0.0-rc.1
vpc_id = vpc-bp16wcbu0xhbg833fymmc
worker_key_file = /root/tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun/credentials/tidb-cluster-node-key.pem
```

> **Note:**
>
> You can use the `terraform output` command to get the output again.

You can then interact with the ACK cluster using `kubectl` and `helm` (`cluster_name` is `tidb-cluster` by default):

```shell
$ export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/credentials/kubeconfig_<cluster_name>
$ kubectl version
$ helm ls
```

> ## Access the DB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Access the cluster
```
